'\ t
.TH "YAY" "8" "2019\-10\-21" "Yay v9.4+" "Yay Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
yay \- AUR Helper written in go

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIyay\fR <operation> [options] [targets]
.sp
\fIyay\fR <search terms>
.sp
\fIyay\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Yay is a Pacman wrapper with AUR support. It passes options to Makepkg and
Pacman after resolving packages to install/upgrade.

This manpage only covers options unique to Yay. For other options see
\fBpacman(8)\fR.

.SH YAY OPERATIONS
.TP
.B \-Y, \-\-yay
Perform yay specific operations. This is the default if no other operation is
selected.

.TP
.B \-P, \-\-show
Perform yay specific print operations.

.TP
.B \-G, \-\-getpkgbuild
Downloads PKGBUILD from ABS or AUR. The ABS can only be used for Arch Linux
repositories

.RE
If no arguments are provided 'yay \-Syu' will be performed.

If no operation is selected \-Y will be assumed.

.SH EXTENDED PACMAN OPERATIONS
.TP
.B \-S, \-Si, \-Sl, \-Ss, \-Su, \-Sc, \-Qu
These operations are extended to support both AUR and repo packages.

.TP
.B \-Sc
Yay will also clean cached AUR package and any untracked Files in the
cache. Cleaning untracked files will wipe any downloaded sources or
built packages but will keep already downloaded vcs sources.

.TP
.B \-R
Yay will also remove cached data about devel packages.

.SH NEW OPTIONS
.TP
.B    \-\-repo
Assume all targets are from the repositories. Additionally Actions such as
sysupgrade will only act on repository packages.

.TP
.B \-a, \-\-aur
Assume all targets are from the AUR. Additionally Actions such as
sysupgrade will only act on AUR packages.

Note that dependency resolving will still act normally and include repository
packages.

.SH YAY OPTIONS (APPLY TO \-Y AND \-\-YAY)

.TP
.B <NO OPTION>
Displays a list of packages matching the search terms and prompts the user on
which packages to install (yogurt mode).

.TP
.B \-\-gendb
Generate development package database. Tracks the latest commit for each
development package, when there is a new commit Yay will know to update. This
is done per package whenever a package is synced. This option should only be
used when migrating to Yay from another AUR helper.

.TP
.B \-c, \-\-clean
Remove unneeded dependencies.

.SH SHOW OPTIONS (APPLY TO \-P AND \-\-SHOW)
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-complete
Print a list of all AUR and repo packages. This allows shell completion
and is not intended to be used directly by the user.

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fish
During complete adjust the output for the fish shell.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-defaultconfig
Print default yay configuration.

.TP
.B \-g, \-\-currentconfig
Print current yay configuration.

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-numberupgrades
Deprecated, use \fByay -Qu\fR and \fBwc -l\fR instead\%.

.TP
.B \-s, \-\-stats
Displays information about installed packages and system health. If there are
orphaned, or out\-of\-date packages, or packages that no longer exist on the
AUR; warnings will be displayed.

.TP
.B \-u, \-\-upgrades
Deprecated, use \fByay -Qu\fR instead\%.

.TP
.B \-w, \-\-news
Print new news from the Archlinux homepage. News is considered new if it is
newer than the build date of all native packages. Pass this twice to show all
available news.

.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pkgbuild
Prints the PKGBUILD of the given packages to stdout.

.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Only show titles when printing news.

.SH GETPKGBUILD OPTIONS (APPLY TO \-G AND \-\-GETPKGBUILD)
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Force download for ABS packages that already exist in the current directory. This
ensures directories are not accidentally overwritten.

.SH PERMANENT CONFIGURATION SETTINGS
.TP
.B \-\-save
Causes the following options to be saved back to the config file. This
provides an easy way to change config options without directly editing the
file.

.TP
.B \-\-aururl
Set an alternative AUR URL. This is mostly useful for users in China who wish
to use https://aur.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/.

.TP
.B \-\-builddir <dir>
Directory to use for Building AUR Packages. This directory is also used as
the AUR cache when deciding if Yay should skip builds.

.TP
.B \-\-absdir <dir>
Directory used to store downloads from the ABS. During \-G, the PKGBUILD
placed in the current dir symlinks to absdir.

.TP
.B \-\-editor <command>
Editor to use when editing PKGBUILDs. If this is not set the \fBEDITOR\fR
environment variable will be checked, followed by \fBVISUAL\fR. If none of
these are set Yay will prompt the user for an editor.

.TP
.B \-\-editorflags <flags>
Passes arguments to the editor. These flags get passed to every instance where
the editor is called by Yay. Arguments are split on whitespace before being
passed to the editor. Multiple arguments may be passed by supplying a space
separated list that is quoted by the shell.

.TP
.B \-\-makepkg <command>
The command to use for \fBmakepkg\fR calls. This can be a command in
\fBPATH\fR or an absolute path to the file.

.TP
.B \-\-pacman <command>
The command to use for \fBpacman\fR calls. This can be a command in
\fBPATH\fR or an absolute path to the file.

.TP
.B \-\-tar <command>
The command to use for \fBbsdtar\fR calls. This can be a command in
\fBPATH\fR or an absolute path to the file.

.TP
.B \-\-git <command>
The command to use for \fBgit\fR calls. This can be a command in
\fBPATH\fR or an absolute path to the file.

.TP
.B \-\-gpg <command>
The command to use for \fBgpg\fR calls. This can be a command in
\fBPATH\fR or an absolute path to the file.

.TP
.B \-\-config <file>
The pacman config file to use.

.TP
.B \-\-makepkgconf <file>
The config file for makepkg to use\%. If this is not set then the default
config file will be used.

.TP
.B \-\-nomakepkgconf
Reset the makepkg config file back to its default.

.TP
.B \-\-requestsplitn <number>
The maximum amount of packages to request per AUR query. The higher the
number the faster AUR requests will be. Requesting too many packages in one
AUR query will cause an error. This should only make a noticeable difference
with very large requests (>500) packages.

.TP
.B \-\-completioninterval <days>
Time in days to refresh the completion cache. Setting this to 0 will cause
the cache to be refreshed every time, while setting this to -1 will cause the
cache to never be refreshed.

.TP
.B \-\-sortby <votes|popularity|id|baseid|name|base|submitted|modified>
Sort AUR results by a specific field during search.

.TP
.B \-\-searchby <name|name-desc|maintainer|depends|checkdepends|makedepends|optdepends>
Search for AUR packages by querying the specified field.

.TP
.B \-\-answerclean <All|None|Installed|NotInstalled|...>
Set a predetermined answer for the clean build menu question. This answer
will be used instead of reading from standard input but will be parsed exactly
the same.

.TP
.B \-\-answerdiff <All|None|Installed|NotInstalled|...>
Set a predetermined answer for the edit diff menu question. This answer
will be used instead of reading from standard input but will be parsed exactly
the same.

.TP
.B \-\-answeredit <All|None|Installed|NotInstalled|...>
Set a predetermined answer for the edit pkgbuild menu question. This answer
will be used instead of reading from standard input but will be parsed exactly
the same.

.TP
.B \-\-answerupgrade <Repo|^Repo|None|...>
Set a predetermined answer for the upgrade menu question. Selects which package
ranges or repos to omit for updates. This answer will be used instead of
reading from standard input but will be treated exactly the same.

.TP
.B \-\-noanswerclean
Unset the answer for the clean build menu.

.TP
.B \-\-noanswerdiff
Unset the answer for the diff menu.

.TP
.B \-\-noansweredit
Unset the answer for the edit pkgbuild menu.

.TP
.B \-\-noanswerupgrade
Unset the answer for the upgrade menu.

.TP
.B \-\-cleanmenu
Show the clean menu. This menu gives you the chance to fully delete the
downloaded build files from Yay's cache before redownloading a fresh copy.

.TP
.B \-\-diffmenu
Show the diff menu. This menu gives you the option to view diffs from
build files before building.

Diffs are shown via \fBgit diff\fR which uses
less by default. This behaviour can be changed via git's config, the
\fB$GIT_PAGER\fR or \fB$PAGER\fR environment variables.

.TP
.B \-\-editmenu
Show the edit menu. This menu gives you the option to edit or view PKGBUILDs
before building.

\fBWarning\fR: Yay resolves dependencies ahead of time via the RPC. It is not
recommended to edit pkgbuild variables unless you know what you are doing.

.TP
.B \-\-upgrademenu
Show a detailed list of updates in a similar format to VerbosePkgLists.
Upgrades can also be skipped using numbers, number ranges or repo names.
Additionally ^ can be used to invert the selection.

\fBWarning\fR: It is not recommended to skip updates from the repositories as
this can lead to partial upgrades. This feature is intended to easily skip AUR
updates on the fly that may be broken or have a long compile time. Ultimately
it is up to the user what upgrades they skip.

.TP
.B \-\-nocleanmenu
Do not show the clean menu.

.TP
.B \-\-nodiffmenu
Do not show the diff menu.

.TP
.B \-\-noeditmenu
Do not show the edit menu.

.TP
.B \-\-noupgrademenu
Do not show the upgrade menu.

.TP
.B \-\-askremovemake
Ask to remove makedepends after installing packages.

.TP
.B \-\-removemake
Remove makedepends after installing packages.

.TP
.B \-\-noremovemake
Do not remove makedepends after installing packages.

.TP
.B \-\-topdown
Display repository packages first and then AUR packages.

.TP
.B \-\-bottomup
Show AUR packages first and then repository packages.

.TP
.B \-\-devel
During sysupgrade also check AUR development packages for updates. Currently
only Git packages are supported.

Devel checking is done using \fBgit ls-remote\fR. The newest commit hash is
compared against the hash at install time. This allows devel updates to be
checked almost instantly and not require the original pkgbuild to be downloaded.

The slower pacaur-like devel checks can be implemented manually by piping
a list of packages into yay (see \fBexamples\fR).

.TP
.B \-\-nodevel
Do not check for development packages updates during sysupgrade.

.TP
.B \-\-cleanafter
Remove untracked files after installation.

Untracked files are removed with the exception of directories.
This allows VCS packages to easily pull an update
instead of having to reclone the entire repo.

.TP
.B \-\-nocleanafter
Do not remove package sources after successful Install.

.TP
.B \-\-timeupdate
During sysupgrade also compare the build time of installed packages against
the last modification time of each package's AUR page.

.TP
.B \-\-notimeupdate
Do not consider build times during sysupgrade.

.TP
.B \-\-redownload
Always download pkgbuilds of targets even when a copy is available in cache.

.TP
.B \-\-redownloadall
Always download pkgbuilds of all AUR packages even when a copy is available
in cache.

.TP
.B \-\-noredownload
When downloading pkgbuilds if the pkgbuild is found in cache and is equal or
newer than the AUR's version use that instead of downloading a new one.

.TP
.B \-\-provides
Look for matching providers when searching for AUR packages. When multiple
providers are found a menu will appear prompting you to pick one. This
increases dependency resolve time although this should not be noticeable.

.TP
.B \-\-noprovides
Do not look for matching providers when searching for AUR packages.
Yay will never show its provider menu but Pacman will still show its
provider menu for repo packages.

.TP
.B \-\-pgpfetch
Prompt to import unknown PGP keys from the \fBvalidpgpkeys\fR field of each
PKGBUILD.

.TP
.B \-\-nopgpfetch
Do not prompt to import unknown PGP keys. This is likely to cause a build
failure unless using options such as \fB\-\-skippgpcheck\fR or a customized
gpg config\%.

.TP
.B \-\-useask
Use pacman's --ask flag to automatically confirm package conflicts. Yay lists
conflicts ahead of time. It is possible that Yay does not detect
a conflict, causing a package to be removed without the user's confirmation.
However, this is very unlikely.

.TP
.B \-\-nouseask
Manually resolve package conflicts during the install. Packages which do not
conflict will not need to be confined manually.

.TP
.B \-\-combinedupgrade
During sysupgrade, Yay will first perform a refresh, then show
its combined menu of repo and AUR packages that will be upgraded. Then after
reviewing the pkgbuilds, the repo and AUR upgrade will start with no need
for manual intervention.

If Yay exits for any reason After the refresh without upgrading. It is then
the user's responsibility to either resolve the reason Yay exited or run
a sysupgrade through pacman directly.

.TP
.B \-\-nocombinedupgrade
During sysupgrade, Pacman \-Syu will be called, then the AUR upgrade will
start. This means the upgrade menu and pkgbuild review will be performed
after the sysupgrade has finished.

.TP
.B \-\-batchinstall
When building and installing AUR packages instead of installing each package
after building, queue each package for install. Then once either all packages
are built or a package in the build queue is needed as a dependency to build
another package, install all the packages in the install queue.

.TP
.B \-\-nobatchinstall
Always install AUR packages immediately after building them.

.TP
.B \-\-rebuild
Always build target packages even when a copy is available in cache.

.TP
.B \-\-rebuildall
Always build all AUR packages even when a copy is available
in cache.

.TP
.B \-\-rebuildtree
When installing an AUR package rebuild and reinstall all of its AUR
dependencies recursively, even the ones already installed. This flag allows
you to easily rebuild packages against your current system's libraries if they
have become incompatible.

.TP
.B \-\-norebuild
When building packages if the package is found in cache and is an equal version
to the one wanted skip the package build and use the existing package.

.TP
.B \-\-mflags <flags>
Passes arguments to makepkg. These flags get passed to every instance where
makepkg is called by Yay. Arguments are split on whitespace before being
passed to makepkg. Multiple arguments may be passed by supplying a space
separated list that is quoted by the shell.

.TP
.B \-\-gpgflags <flags>
Passes arguments to gpg. These flags get passed to every instance where
gpg is called by Yay. Arguments are split on whitespace before being
passed to gpg. Multiple arguments may be passed by supplying a space
separated list that is quoted by the shell.

.TP
.B \-\-sudo <command>
The command to use for \fBsudo\fR calls. This can be a command in
\fBPATH\fR or an absolute path to the file.
The sudoloop is not guaranteed to work with a custom \fBsudo\fR command.

.TP
.B \-\-sudoflags <flags>
Passes arguments to sudo. These flags get passed to every instance where
sudo is called by Yay. Arguments are split on whitespace before being
passed to sudo. Multiple arguments may be passed by supplying a space
separated list that is quoted by the shell.

.TP
.B \-\-sudoloop
Loop sudo calls in the background to prevent sudo from timing out during long
builds.

.TP
.B \-\-nosudoloop
Do not loop sudo calls in the background.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
yay \fIfoo\fR
Search and install from the repos and the \fBAUR\fR\ using yogurt mode.

.TP
yay \-Syu
Update package list and upgrade all currently installed repo and \fBAUR\fR.

.TP
yay \-Sua
Update all currently installed \fBAUR\fR packages.

.TP
yay \-S \fIfoo\fR
Installs package \fIfoo\fR from the repos or the \fBAUR\fR.

.TP
yay \-Ss \fIfoo\fR
Searches for package \fIfoo\fR on the repos or the \fBAUR\fR.

.TP
yay \-Si \fIfoo\fR
Gets information about package \fIfoo\fR from the repos or the \fBAUR\fR.

.TP
yay \-S \fIfoo\fR \-\-mflags "\-\-skipchecksums \-\-skippgpcheck"
Installs \fIfoo\fR while skipping checksums and pgp checks.

.TP
yay \-\-devel \-\-save
Sets devel to true in the config.

.TP
yay \-P \-\-stats
Shows statistics for installed packages and system health.

.TP
pacman -Qmq | grep -Ee '-(cvs|svn|git|hg|bzr|darcs)$' | yay -S --needed -
pacaur-like devel check.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B AURDEST
Can be set to configure the build directory.

Overridden by \-\-builddir.

.TP
.B VISUAL, EDITOR
When editor is not configured, use these variables to pick what editor
to use when editing PKGBUILDS.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B CONFIG DIRECTORY
The config directory is \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yay/\fR. If
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is unset, the config directory will fall back to
\fI$HOME/.config/yay\fR.

\fIconfig.json\fR Is used to store all of Yay's config options. Editing
this file should be done through Yay, using the options
mentioned in \fBPERMANENT CONFIGURATION SETTINGS\fR.

.TP
.B CACHE DIRECTORY
The cache directory is \fI$XDG_CACHE_HOME/yay/\fR. If
\fB$XDG_CACHE_HOME\fR is unset, the cache directory will fall back to
\fI$HOME/.cache/yay\fR.

\fIcompletion.cache\fR holds a list of of all packages, including the AUR,
for shell completion. By default the completion files are refreshed every
7 days.

\fIvcs.json\fR tracks VCS packages and the latest commit of each source. If
any of these commits change the package will be upgraded during a devel update.

.TP
.B BUILD DIRECTORY
Unless otherwise set this should be the same as \fBCACHE DIRECTORY\fR. This
directory is used to store downloaded AUR Packages as well as any source files
and built packages from those packages.

.TP
.B PACMAN.CONF
Yay uses Pacman's config file to set certain pacman options either through
go\-alpm or Yay itself. Options inherited include most libalpm options and
pacman options.

Notably: \fBDatabases\fR, \fBColor\fR and \fB*Path/*Dir\fR options are used.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makepkg (8),
.BR makepkg.conf (5),
.BR PKGBUILD (5),
.BR pacman (8),
.BR pacman.conf (5)

See the arch wiki at https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository for more info on the \fBAUR\fR.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to our GitHub page https://github.com/Jguer/yay

.SH AUTHORS
Jguer <joaogg3@gmail.com>
.br
Morgan <morganamilo@archlinux.org>
